here is how highlighting currently works:  
(a) when a new proofline gets generated from the previous line (either via Generate and Check button or by the Substitution button), then the highlighting position default to be whatever node just get changed from the previous line.  
(b) for line000, the premise, which is the only line not generated from a prior line, the entire expression starts of highlighted (i.e the root node always has and ID of 0).  
(c) when the user binds a line (either by typing a line num and hitting Fill Values in the footer editting pane, or by clicking the number display), it enables the arrow keys to change the highlighting in the prior line (the exception being if the premise is editing, since it has no prior line).  
(d) the highlighting on the prior line determines where the user's rule will be applied in order to generate the bound line.  as a simple example, suppose line003 is (+ 1 (+ 2 3)), and the user chooses to edit the blank line004. then they move the highlighting to select the (+ 2 3) subexpression and type the rule "eval +", then line004 will be created as (+ 1 5) and the 5 will be the initial highlight (which the user can change by editing line005, which the application always keeps a blank line at the end of a proof).
(e) the selected nodes for highlighting are saved both in-memory as part of the proofline structure and also in the persistent database.  (I think, but i'm not certain, that it's called selectedNode in the db and also self.appliedRuleNodeId in the in-memory ProofLine structure -- though according to the comment after it, that's actually storing the highlighting of the prior line.  not what i expected, but I suppose it's good enough to retrieve what we need)
(f) since all four subproofs proofs of the inductions structure (lhs&rhs of basecase/leapstep) are independent, hitting the sidetoggle button or the subproof toggle button should have no effect on any aspect of the saved proof lines, which includes not changing the highlighting at all.  In particular, if the user has a partially done lhs basecase, and then switches to do a few proof lines on the rhs base case, then when they switch back to the lhs basecase, it should be exactly as they left it.

i have a new idea for a feature change. however, before we start implementing it, I want your analysis of how doable it is: will it risk breaking the existing code (which currently works)?  will it involve many significant changes and take a long time to set up?
here is the idea:  other than line000 (the premise), each proofline supports having TWO highlights: one which is moveable by the user that defaults to being the entire expression. This is the one the user selects on the line prior to the bound line to indicate where the rule they enter should be applied. (this is the way the single highlighting currently works). The second highlight (which will be in a different color, and slightly taller so that it can still be visible if the two highlights overlap) is NOT moveable. It is made on the newly generated expression and indicates the node which just got changed (this is the location that the current version starts the highlighting by default).

In an ideal world, the two colors (say yellow and light blue) are "paired" so that which is the target and which is the result alternates. here is an example.  Suppose line001 is (+ (+ 1 2) (+ 4 5)) with the entire expression highlighted in yellow (the moveable target) and the 4 highlighted in blue as the result (perhaps it got generated by doing an eval + on (* 1 4) on the previous line).  now the user binds a blank line002, uses the arrow keys to move the yellow from being the entire expression in line001 to just down to the (+ 4 5) subnode. (notice that the blue resulting highlight on the 4 cannot be changed). Note that since the result-highlight in blue is slightly taller than the moveable target-highlight in yellow, it is still visible to the user which node is getting highlighted by what.  the user enters "eval +" and does a "Generate and Check"; this creates line002 with the expression (+ (+ 1 2) 9) with the entire expression (default on creation) highlighted with the moveable target-highlight colored blue this time.  the immovable result-highlight, colored yellow this time to pair with the prior line, is on the on 9, since that's the resultant subnode which got substituted. Continuing this example, now suppose the user binds the new blank line003.  this enables them to move the blue highlight on line002 (which started by default on the entire expression) down to the (+ 1 2). Doing an "eval +" rule and Generate and Check, this creates line003 with the expression (+ 3 9).  The moveable target-highlight, this time back to being colored yellow, defaults to covering the entire expression, while the immovable result-highlight, blue this time to pair with the blue target above, is on the 3.

Does this make sense to you?  is this new feature reasonable to acheive or would it be too hard to implement?